Title : Bus Reservation System

Group Members : Harshada Pimpalkar 1138
                            Anjali Rupchandani 1118

List of Actors : 1. Administrator
                       2. Passengers
                     
1.Introduction

   Purpose:

     This document is meant to delineate the features of BRS,so as to serve as a guide to the developers 
on one hand and a software validation document for the prospective client on the other.
The Bus Reservation System is developed for the Travellers to reserve seats online and to save them from hassles.It will 
allow the passengers to enjoy the booking of bus tickets form the present position through internet.
They will be provided with the bus routes along with some other facilities like booking the tickets based on 
there comfort level,the time of arrival and the departure,canceling the tickets.The administrator can handle 
the various aspects like applying the offers,changing the facilities according to price,can monitor various
other things.
 
2.Scope of Project

This application can be used by any Travel Agent to issue the tickets to the customers.It also helps the customer to enquire the availability of seats
in a particular bus at particular date from the particular location.It will also provide the facility to check the timings and schedule of the buses. 

3.Functional Requirements:
   
   This section provides requirement overview of the system. Various functional modules that can be implemented by this system will be-
   Description:
        Registration:
               Registration if customer wants to book the bus ticket then he/she must be registered.Unregistered user will not be allowed to access the site.
        Login:
              The passenger who have registered can login to the system by entering the valid user id and password.
	If admin logins, they can add or remove bus, can change the price and the timings.
	If user logins, they can book the ticket from their particular location to their desired distination.
        Selection of Source and destination:
              The passenger will be able to choose the source and destination.
        Available Buses:
              After the selection of the source , destination, date the available buses for the specific route along with the time will be shown to the user.
        Bus Route:
              The Route to be followed by the bus while travelling from source to the destination will be shown to the user.
        Ticket Booking:
               The passenger will be able to book the tickets as per their comfort of price,bus catagory,time,date etc.
        Logout:
               After the payment of the ticket the customer will be logged out.
        Report Generation:
               After all transation the system will generate the online ticket and will send one copy to passenger's Email- address and 
        another one to the system database to maintain the records of the passengers along with the travelling details.

        The term client/server refers primarily to an architecture or logical division of responsibilities,the client is the application (also known as the front-end),
       and the server is the RDBMS (also known as the back-end).
        A client/server system is a distributed system in which,Some sites are client sites and others are server sites.
        All the data resides at the server sites.
        All applications execute at the client sites.
        
4.Technical Issues:
	This system will work on client-Server architecture. It will require an internet server.
	The system should support some commonly used browser such as Chrome etc.
	Interface Requirement Various interfaces for the product could be 
	1.Login Page, 
	2.Registration form

	The customers may select the different options which will be open in another screen as
               1.Login Page
               2.Registration Form
               3.Source and destination (state wise)
               4.Journey Date
               5.Search Buses
               6. select pickup and drop location.	
               7.Offers
               8.Route Directories
               9.Payment Gateways

5. Hardware Interface:
	The System must run over the internet,
        All the hardware shall require to connect to internet will be hardware interface for the system.
		e.g. modem,  WAN, LAN
		Specialized Server Infrastructure Hardware
        The system should use distrubuted servers i.e cloud for managing large amount of data so as to make it appear as single unit for end-user.
        The system should have proper clusters for backup.

6.Performance Requirement:
	There is no  performance requirement in this system, because the server request  and response to client is totally based on internet 
                connection of end user.

7.Design Constrains:
        This system should be developed using  Standard Web Page Development Tool , which conforms GUI standards such like HTML, XML, JSON,etc.
        The system should support various RDMS and Cloud Technologies.

8.Operational Senario:
        The passenger will login and will enter the source, destination and date .The system will show all the buses from that route reaching to the entered 
destination along with the bus-type and the seats available for booking along with the fair.The passenger will choose the bus seat according to there 
comfort and choice.The payment will be done and the online bus ticket will be generated and will be send on the email address of the user.The user will
also be provided with the ticket cancelation option.


			